1A: Integrate appropriate ideas and evidence, in accordance with course content#Development: i. Ideas are irrelevant or inappropriate to topic. ii. Evidence is irrelevant or inappropriate to topic. iii. Sources are irrelevant or inappropriate to topic.#Development: i. Ideas are appropriate to topic. ii Evidence is appropriate to topic. iii. Sources are appropriate to topic.#Development: i. Writing integrates a range of ideas relevant topic. ii. Writing integrates a range of evidence relevant topic. iii. Writing integrates a range of sources relevant topic.
1B: Organize those ideas and that evidence strategically for a given audience and purpose#Purpose and audience: i. Focus of topic is unclear. ii. Writing features writer-based prose that does not include the audience. Organization: i. Structure shows little to no awareness of the audience. ii. Structure shows little to no awareness of the strategic purpose of the communication. iii. Structure lacks coherence. iv. Structure does not provide transitions.#Purpose and audience: Focus establishes and maintains purpose. Writing shows an appropriate and consistent awareness of audience. Organization: i. Structure shows some awareness of the audience. ii. Structure shows some awareness of the strategic purpose of the communication. iii. Structure attempts coherence. iv. Structure provides some use of smooth transitions.#Purpose and audience: i. Focus develops and sustains an insightful purpose. ii. Writing shows a refined and ongoing awareness of audience. Organization: i. Structure is easily navigated, showing consistent awareness of audience. ii. Structure shows consistent awareness of the strategic purpose of the communication. iii. Structure achieves consistent coherence. iv. Structure shows consistent use of smooth transitions.
2A: Write grammatically correct sentences that are fluid and include smooth transitions.#Sentence Structure: i. Sentences contain grammatical errors. ii. Lack of fluency in sentence structure undermines purpose.#Sentence Structure: i. Sentence structure is generally grammatically correct. ii. Sentence structure is generally varied and readable.#Sentence Structure: i. Sentence structure is consistently grammatically correct. ii. Sentence structure is consistently varied and readable.
2B: Use vocabulary that is appropriate for the purpose and audience/field#Word Choice: i. Word choices are not varied. ii. Word choices are inappropriate for audience. iii. Word choices are inappropriate for purpose.#Word Choice: i. Word choices are varied. ii. Word choices are appropriate for audience. iii. Word choices are appropriate for purpose.#Word Choice: i. Word choices are consistently varied. ii. Word choices are consistently appropriate for audience. iii. Word choices are consistently appropriate for purpose.
2C: Employ correct punctuation, spelling, capitalization, and documentation conventions *Note: There are no specific numbers applied to “large,” “limited” and “few” because lengths of papers presented as artifacts vary. These numbers should be agreed on by assessors.#Mechanics: i. Large number of punctuation errors impedes the reader. ii. Large number of spelling errors impedes the reader. iii. Large number of capitalization errors impedes the reader. iv. Large number of documentation convention errors impedes the reader.#Mechanics: i. Limited number of errors in punctuation does not impede the reader. ii. Limited number of errors in spelling does not impede the reader. iii. Limited number of errors in capitalization does not impede the reader. iv. Limited number of errors in documentation conventions does not impede the reader.#Mechanics: i. Few, if any, errors in punctuation advance the reader. ii. Few, if any, errors in spelling advance the reader. iii. Few, if any, errors in capitalization advance the reader. iv. Few, if any, errors in documentation conventions advance the reader.
2D: Use appropriate citation and attribution of ideas, information, and evidence#Ethical Use of Sources: i. Few sources are acknowledged. ii. Sources are inappropriately cited and attributed.#Ethical Use of Sources: i. Sources are consistently acknowledged. ii. Sources are appropriately cited and attributed.#Ethical Use of Sources: i. Sources are consistently acknowledged according to the same style sheet chosen. ii. Sources are appropriately cited and attributed according to the same style sheet chosen.