A. Students will understand the use of specific literary terms, traditions, or styles#Misuses or does not use literary terms, traditions, or styles in discussing the text.#Demonstrates some understanding of how particular literary techniques and elements function in the text.  For example, there is analysis of figurative language, or symbolism, or point of view, or dramatic structure, or genre, and so forth.#Demonstrates an understanding of  author’s purpose in employing literary techniques.  For example, the analysis of literary style supports inferences related to the text’s overall meaning or significance.
B. Students will interpret the meanings or significance of a literary text#Relies on plot summary or generalizing or speculation about the author or literary text.#Explains a main point expressed by the literary text.  For example, the paper demonstrates an understanding of an author’s message, perspective, or artistic purpose.#Explains in specific terms the overall themes and significance of the literary text.  For example, the argument shows why it matters to understand the meaning of a particular work of literature—its historical, social, or personal impact.
A. Students will identify and articulate a central thesis around which the essay is to be organized.#Thesis is unclear or obvious or not arguable.  There may be several confusing passages in the paper/project.#Thesis is somewhat complex and clearly stated and arguable.  Some parts of the paper/project may stray from the main purpose, but the confusion this causes for the audience is minor#Thesis is complex and very clearly stated and specific.  The writer maintains focus on the original purpose.  Few, if any, parts of the paper/project stray enough from the purpose to cause the audience confusion.
B. Students will demonstrate appropriate conventions of grammar and style.#Frequent and pervasive errors in grammar and punctuation which interfere with communication and sense; sentences lack fluidity, variety, or complexity.#Some errors in grammar and punctuation, but they do not interfere significantly with communication.  Most sentences are fluid, varied, and show some complexity.#Few errors in grammar and punctuation.  Sentences are fluid, varied, and complex.
C. Students will support argument with evidence from literary texts and/or secondary sources#Main ideas are only minimally supported with details and reasoning.  For example, quotations are not explained or connected to the point.#Main ideas are adequately supported with details and reasoning.  For example, quotations are for the most part connected effectively to the point.#Main ideas are strongly supported with details and reasoning.  For example quotations are consistently precise and integrated effectively into the overall thesis/argument.
D. Students will find and evaluate print and electronic sources appropriate for answering a specific research question about a literary text.#Unclear how source clarifies an understanding of the literary text.  For example, the source is inappropriate or not credible or not connected to the literary analysis.#Source clarifies understanding of the literary text.  For example, the source is appropriate and explicitly and specifically connected to the literary analysis.#Source expands understanding of literary text.  For example, application of the source adds significantly to the literary analysis.
E. Students will cite sources according to MLA documentation style and with academic integrity.#Sources are not cited or not cited in MLA style.#Sources are cited in MLA style with some minor errors.#Sources are cited in MLA style with no or few errors.
