1A. Demonstrate knowledge of a major topic or branch in philosophy such as Aesthetics, Epistemology, Ethics, Logic, Metaphysics, and Theories of Justice#Demonstrates little knowledge of relevant concepts in, and little knowledge of relevant facts about, a major topic or branch in philosophy (listed in objective).#Demonstrates basic knowledge of relevant concepts in, and knowledge of relevant facts about, a major topic or branch in  philosophy (listed in objective).#Demonstrates accurate knowledge of relevant concepts in, and precise knowledge of relevant facts about, a major topic or branch in philosophy (listed in objective).
1B. Demonstrate knowledge of a principal theme in philosophy or a major era in the history of philosophy (Ancient, Modern, Medieval, or Contemporary) or a core figure in the history of philosophy#Demonstrates little knowledge of relevant concepts in, and little knowledge of relevant facts about,  a principal theme in philosophy, or a major era in the history of philosophy, or a core figure in the history of philosophy.#Demonstrates basic knowledge of relevant concepts in, and knowledge of relevant facts about, a principal theme in philosophy,  or a major era in the history of philosophy, or a core figure in the history of philosophy.#Demonstrates accurate knowledge of relevant concepts in, and precise knowledge of relevant facts about, a principal theme in philosophy or a major era in the history of philosophy, or a core figure in the history of philosophy.
2A. Use philosophical terms and language appropriately in their prose#Fails to use philosophical terms and language appropriately in their prose.#Demonstrates use of philosophical terms and language basically appropriately in their prose.#Demonstrates use of philosophical terms and language very appropriately in their prose.
2B. Identify and analyze assumptions and premises in philosophical arguments#Mimics arguments in the text with no recognition of underlying assumptions or premises.#Recognizes assumptions and premises in philosophical arguments and raises questions about some of these assumptions and premises.#Clearly and insightfully recognizes and articulates assumptions and premises in an argument and critically evaluates the argument.
2C. Construct philosophical arguments and write cogently about philosophy#Does not display adequate logical structure relative to the thesis being defended (or question being answered).#Displays adequate, even if not precise, logical structure relative to the thesis being defended (or question being answered).#Displays precise logical structure relative to the thesis being defended (or question being answered).
2D. Demonstrate the ability to relate abstract theory to concrete practice#Fails to demonstrate the ability to relate abstract theory to concrete practice in a coherent, reasoned way.#Demonstrates the ability to relate abstract theory to concrete practice in a basically adequate way.#Demonstrates the ability to clearly and insightfully relate abstract theory to concrete practice.
