Recognize valid application of cause and effect reasoning#Strategy/procedure was inappropriate or did not bring about successful completion of the task/investigation No or minimal evidence of scientific reasoning used to describe cause and effect. Significant  errors in the application of the scientific method (framed testable questions, designed experiment, gathered and recorded data, analyzed data, and verified results)#Completed the task/investigation using an appropriate strategy/procedure Employed scientific reasoning to accurately describe cause and effect. Applied scientific method accurately: (framed testable questions, designed experiment, gathered and recorded data, analyzed data, and verified results)#Completed the task/investigation using a sophisticated strategy/procedure and/or revised strategy/procedure where appropriate to complete the task. Employed refined and complex reasoning in understanding/ description of cause and effect. 
Sophisticated application of the scientific method and/or revised method as appropriate to complete the task (revised strategy/procedure where appropriate to complete the task).
Describe patterns of scale, proportion and quantity in the natural world#No mention or does not accurately describe patterns of scale, proportion and quantity in the natural world in relation to the task/investigation#Accurately describes patterns of scale, proportion and quantity in the natural world in relation to the task/investigation#Evidence of in depth, sophisticated understanding of relevant scientific concepts such as scale, proportion and quantity in natural world in relation to the task/investigation.
Define natural systems in terms of  energy, material components and processes of change#No use, or inappropriate use, of scientific terminology to define natural systems in terms of energy, material components and processes of change#Accurately used  scientific terminology to define natural systems in terms of energy, material components and processes of change#Sophisticated  used of scientific terminology to define natural systems in terms of  energy, material components and processes of change
Communicate and collaborate effectively across disciplines (science and non-science)#No explanation, or the explanation could not be understood, or was unrelated to the task/ investigation.Did not use, or inappropriately used scientific representations and notation (e.g. symbols, diagrams, graphs, tables, etc.) to  organize and display information. No conclusion stated, or no data recorded.#Basic Explanation provided that relates to the task/investigation Appropriate  use of scientific representations and notations to  organize and display information. Conclusions were supported by data. Did not raise new questions or no application to new contexts#Provided clear, effective and detailed explanation that relates to the task/investigation. The reader does not need to infer how and why decisions were made. Multiple scientific representations and notations used to precisely and appropriately organize and display information. Interpretation of data supported conclusions, and raised new questions or was applied to new contexts or Disagreements with data resolved when appropriate.
Use qualitative and quantitative analysis to make rational predictions of natural phenomena based on knowledge#___Did not use appropriate scientific tools or technologies (e.g., rulers, pH paper, hand lens, computer, reference materials, etc.) Quantitative tools are not correctly used. Qualitative tools are not correctly used.#___Uses appropriate tools and technologies (e.g. rulers, pH paper, hand lens, computer, etc.) Quantitative tools are correctly used. Qualitative tools are correctly used.#Accurately and proficiently used all appropriate tools quantitative technologies (e.g., rulers, pH paper, hand lens, computer, reference materials, etc.) Quantitative tools are fully and correctly used. Qualitative tools are fully and  correctly used. 
Apply scientific knowledge to issues impacting society#Is not able to explain how science relates to problems of societal concern Doesn’t discuss the applications of science and technology in societal context#Provides a basic/simplistic explanation as to  how science relates to problems of societal concern Discusses the applications of science and technology in societal context#Provides a full and accurate description of how science relates to problems of societal concern. Thoroughly discusses the applications of science and technology in societal context