Purpose & Audience2.b#Thesis is complex and very clearly  stated.  The writer maintains focus on the original purpose.  Few, if any, parts of the paper/project stray enough from the purpose to cause the audience confusion.#Thesis is somewhat complex and clearly stated.  Some parts of the paper/project may stray from the main purpose, but the confusion this causes for the audience is minor.#Thesis is unclear or simplistic.  There may be several confusing passages in the paper/project.
Organization2.d#Overall, the sequencing of ideas in the project is effective.  The paper/project has a clear beginning, middle, and end. The introduction forecasts the subject matter, and the conclusion does not merely repeat the thesis or summarize the project but rounds it off, indicating the implications or importance of the thesis.#Overall, the sequencing of ideas in the project is adequate.  Occasionally, it may not be clear why a particular idea is discussed in a particular place in the paper/project. The introduction or conclusion is somewhat sketchy.  The introduction may be too abrupt, or the conclusion may merely summarize the project rather than round  it off or fully explore its implications.#Overall, the sequencing of main ideas  in the project is ineffective.  It is frequently not clear why a particular idea is discussed in a particular place in the paper/project. The introduction or conclusion of the project is short or sketchy.
Development (2.e  Reach conclusion that synthesizes and builds) If sources are used, see also the last three rows of this rubric.#Main ideas are strongly supported with details and reasoning.#Main ideas are adequately supported with details and reasoning.#Main ideas are only minimally supported with details and reasoning.#Sentence Structure 3.c#Sentences are fluid, varied, and complex. Transitions between sentences are smooth.#Most sentences are fluid, varied, and show some complexity. Transitions between sentences may not always be clear or smooth.#Sentences lack fluidity, variety, and complexity. Transitions between sentences may be absent or inappropriate.
Word Choice 3.a, 3.b#The word choice is effective for the purpose and audience/field.#The word choice is adequate for the purpose and audience/field.#The word choice is inadequate for the purpose and audience/field.
Grammar No alignment#There are few or no errors in pronoun references,  subject-verb agreement, pronoun-antecedent agreement, or other grammatical areas.#There are some errors in pronoun references,  subject-verb agreement, pronoun-antecedent agreement, or other grammatical areas, but they do not interfere significantly with communication.#There are frequent errors in pronoun references,  subject-verb agreement, pronoun-antecedent agreement, or other grammatical areas, and they interfere seriously with communication.
Mechanics No alignment#There are few or no errors in punctuation, spelling, and capitalization.#There are some errors in punctuation, spelling, and capitalization, but they do not interfere significantly with communication.#There are frequent errors in punctuation, spelling, and capitalization, and they seriously interfere with communication.
Integration of Material from Sources 5.b#Facts or ideas from sources are integrated effectively into the paper/project.#Facts or ideas from sources are integrated adequately (though not necessarily smoothly) into the paper/project.#Facts or ideas from sources are not integrated adequately into the paper/project.
Documentation Conventions:  Bibliography 5.c.1#Bibliography entries are formatted  in MLA, APA, Chicago, or another accepted  documentation style, with few or no errors.#Bibliography entries are formatted in MLA, APA, Chicago, or another accepted documentation style, with some errors.  The basic documentation style is easily discernible.#Bibliography entries do not follow MLA, APA, Chicago, or another accepted documentation style, or they do so only vaguely, many errors being evident.
Documentation Conventions:  In-text Citation 5.c.2#Sources are cited in the paper in the same documentation style (e.g., MLA, APA, Chicago) as the bibliography, with few or no errors.#Sources are cited in the paper in the same documentation style (e.g., MLA, APA, Chicago) as the bibliography, with some errors. #Sources are not cited in the paper in the same documentation style (e.g., MLA, APA, Chicago)  as the bibliography, or they are cited  with many errors.  
