#The sources are not varied or are only minimally varied for the particular assignment and topic.#The sources are somewhat appropriately varied for the particular assignment and topic.#The sources are appropriately varied for the particular assignment and topic.
#The sources are not summarized or are summarized very unclearly, or the annotations appear to be copied or inadequately paraphrased from an abstract, review or other publication.  (If the last is the case, check academic integrity box at end of rubric).#The annotations clearly summarize the main idea or content of most of the sources, though there may be some vagueness.#The annotations clearly summarize the main idea or content of each of the sources.
#Few or no sources are evaluated adequately for their credibility and quality, or the annotations appear to be copied or inadequately paraphrased from an abstract, review or other publication. (If the last is the case, check the academic integrity box at the end of this rubric).#Most sources are evaluated adequately for their credibility and quality, though the rigor of the evaluations may vary from entry to entry.#All sources are evaluated adequately for their credibility and quality (given the length requirements for the annotations).
#Few or no annotations show clearly the relevance of the source to the particular assignment and topic.#The annotations show how most of the sources are relevant to the particular assignment and topic; in some cases, the explanation of relevance may not be detailed.#The annotations show clearly how each source is relevant to the particular assignment and topic.
#Bibliography entries do not follow MLA, APA, Chicago, or another accepted documentation style, or they do so only vaguely, many errors being evident.#Bibliography entries are written in MLA, APA, Chicago, or another accepted documentation style, with some errors.  The basic documentation style is easily discernible.#Bibliography entries are written in MLA, APA, Chicago, or another accepted  documentation style, with few or no errors.
#The annotations include so many errors in grammar, spelling, and punctuation that the writing must be labelled inadequate for college-level work.#The annotations include some errors in grammar, spelling, and punctuation, but they are not too distracting.#The annotations include few or no errors in grammar, spelling, and punctuation.  They are polished in this regard.  