IA Identify the components of effective oral communication of an idea with an argument or thesis supported by evidence.#IA Identify the components of effective oral communication of an idea with an argument or thesis supported by evidence.#i Presenter has chosen a topic that is appropriate to the goals of the assigned subject of presentation (to inform, to persuade, to entertain, etc) and has identified the major components of an oral presentation. ii Presenter has done an adequate job of presenting the material in support of its central thesis and conclusions, and of explaining its significance.# i Presenter has chosen a topic that is appropriate to the goals of the assigned subject of presentation (to inform, to persuade, to entertain, etc) and has identified the major components of an oral presentation. ii Presenter has done an adequate job of presenting the material in support of its central thesis and conclusions, and of explaining its significance.#i Presenter has chosen a meaningful topic that meets the assignment goals and is of great significance for an understanding of the subject of presentation. ii Presenter has done an excellent job of presenting the material in support of its central thesis and conclusions, and of explaining its significance.
IB Demonstrate the knowledge of how to select appropriate material that will be understood by the audience.#i Subject matter seems irrelevant to audience's needs and interests. ii The presenter did not attempt to tailor the messages to the audiences’ attitudes, needs, values, etc., nor explain confusing terms and/or use appropriate language.#i Subject matter in the presentation seems somewhat relevant to audience needs and interests. ii The presenter attempted to tailor most of the messages to the audiences’ needs, knowledge, values, etc. and attempted to explain some confusing terms and/or use appropriate language.#i Connection of subject matter expressed in the presentation to audience's needs and interests is stated with sophistication. ii Presenter identifies and expresses a deep understanding of their target audience by tailoring messages to address the audiences’ attitudes’, beliefs, values or knowledge of the topic. (i.e., explain confusing terms, use appropriate language for audience)
IC Apply organizational and explanatory strategies suitable to the topic, audience, setting and purpose of the message that is being delivered.#i One or more major structural components (introduction, transitions, and/or conclusion) do not exist or fails to give audience a clear sense of direction.#i Includes adequate structural components (i.e., introduction, transitions, and conclusion) that seem to fit the purpose of the presentation and are appropriate for the audience.#i All structural components of the presentation (introduction, transitions, and conclusion)  fit the purpose of the presentation and are appropriate for the audience.
IIA Speak clearly and employ a rich and imaginative vocabulary with diction and pronunciation appropriate to the context.#i Presenter does not use language that meets the goal of the presentation. ii Presenter uses words that are awkward, inappropriate, or mispronounced. iii Presenter does not speak clearly, e.g. speaks inaudibly or in a monotone and is sometimes difficult to understand, lacks fluidity in presentation.#i Presenter uses language that fits the goals of the presentation. ii Presenter uses words that are appropriate, understandable and correctly pronounced. iii Within reasonable constraints, presenter generally speaks with correct diction.#i The presenter uses standard English that is clear and fits the goals of the presentation. ii Presenter uses appropriate and sophisticated language and pronounces words clearly. iii Presenter speaks with correct diction.
IIB Present fluently, maintain eye contact with audience, and use gestures appropriate to context.#i Presenter reads from a prepared text without establishing and/or maintaining eye contact with the audience. ii Presenter appears uneasy and displays a number of disruptive or distracting nonverbal behaviors during the presentation--such as shifting weight,  mechanical gestures, lack of facial expression, etc.#i Presenter occasionally refers to a prepared text but works to establish good eye contact with the audience. ii Presenter maintains good posture, appears generally relaxed, and occasionally uses gestures for purposes of emphasis.#i Presenter makes little use of a prepared text and maintains consistent eye contact with the audience. ii Presenter appears poised and comfortable before the audience and speaks easily and fluently, using appropriate and effective gestures for purposes of emphasis.
IIC Define the thesis and/or purpose of the message, use smooth transitions from one section to the next, and end with a clear and direct conclusion#i The presenter fails to state the thesis or goal of the presentation in the beginning and at the end. The thesis and conclusion lack clarity and descriptive information. ii Presentation does not include transitions, lacks clarity and coherence with many ideas inadequately explained; rambles on without conveying relevant meaning.#i The presenter states the thesis or goal of the presentation in the beginning and restates it at the end. The thesis and conclusion are relatively clear and descriptive. ii Transitions are generally smooth from one section to the next, making the meaning clear.#i The presenter states the thesis or goal of presentation in the beginning and restates it at the end. The thesis and conclusion are clear and descriptive. ii Smooth transitions from one section of the presentation to the next, thus creating a coherent argument from beginning to end.
IID Demonstrate the effective and judicious use of detail and evidence in substantiating and/or illuminating the presentation’s central thesis.#i Presentation is weak in terms of the detail and evidence it presents in support of its thesis and/or conclusions. The evidence cited does not support or only weakly supports the presenter’s thesis.#i Presenter provided sufficient use of detail and evidence in supporting the presentation’s central argument or thesis.#i The presenter provided detailed and relevant evidence to support the central argument/thesis throughout the presentation.
