Defines what one needs to learn, why one needs to learn this (topic), and determines the nature and extent of needed information.#Does not define a focused topic. (too narrow, too broad) Does not identify the key concepts and terms related to the topic. Does not develop search strategies for effective searching.#Defines a topic that is somewhat focused, but either too broad or narrow. Identifies some key concepts and terms related to the topic. Develops some search strategies for effective searching along with several ineffective.#Defines a topic that is appropriately focused,  neither too broad nor too narrow. Identifies relevant key concepts and terms related to the topic. Develops relevant search strategies for effective searching.
Find and accesses information addressing the topic effectively and efficiently.#Does not interpret the parts of a citation correctly in order to find resources. Does not locate information from a variety of resources. Does not demonstrate effective use of electronic resources to search for information (library catalog, article databases, search engines, etc.) Is not able to access and retrieve information.#Interprets some of the parts of a citation correctly in order to find resources. Locates information from one or two different types of sources, but not a variety of sources where applicable. Shows some effective use of electronic resources to search for information (library catalog, article databases, search engines, etc.) Is not able to access and retrieve information.#Interprets the parts of a citation correctly in order to find resources. Locates information from an appropriate mix of resources (print, including journals and books, databases, websites, videos, etc.). Uses electronic resources effectively to search for information (library catalog, article databases, search engines, etc.) Accesses and retrieves information effectively.
Evaluates information and its sources critically.#Does not examine, compare, and assess information based on standard evaluation criteria. Does not evaluate resources by considering reliability, validity, accuracy, bias, and currency. Does not distinguish types of resources (scholarly, popular, trade publications, primary sources, etc.) Recognize resources that are appropriate to the topic.#__ Partially examines, compares, and assesses information based on standard evaluation criteria. Partially evaluates resources by considering reliability, validity, accuracy, bias, and currency. Sometimes distinguishes types of resources (scholarly, popular, trade publications, primary sources, etc.) Recognize some resources that are appropriate to the topic.#__ Examines, compares, and assesses information based on standard evaluation criteria. Evaluates resources by considering reliability, validity, accuracy, bias, and currency. Distinguishes types of resources (scholarly, popular, trade publications, primary sources, etc.). Recognizes resources that are appropriate to the topic. 
Uses the information effectively to accomplish a specific purpose.#__ Does not extract concepts, details, and opinions from the resource material. Does not draw independent conclusions based on the resource material. Does not synthesize the resource material with existing knowledge. Does not determine whether the resource material satisfies the topic. Does not distinguish when to quote directly and when to paraphrase. Does not use the resource material to accomplish a specific task (e.g. write a research paper, create a presentation, conduct an interview, etc.) Does not use technology as necessary to accomplish a specific task.#__ Extracts some concepts, details, and opinions from the resource material. Draws some independent conclusions based on the resource material. Exhibits some synthesis of the resource material with existing knowledge. Partially determines whether the resource material satisfies the topic. Sometimes distinguishes when to quote directly and when to paraphrase or is not consistent. Partially uses the resource material to accomplish a specific task (e.g. write a research paper, create a presentation, conduct an interview, etc.) Sometimes uses technology as necessary to accomplish a specific task.#__ Extracts concepts, details, and opinions from the resource material. Draws independent conclusions based on the resource material. Synthesizes the resource material with existing knowledge. Determines whether the resource material satisfies the topic. Distinguishes when to quote directly and when to paraphrase. Uses the resource material to accomplish a specific task (e.g. write a research paper, create a presentation, conduct an interview, etc.) Uses technology as necessary to accomplish a specific task.
Uses the information ethically within the norms of academic discourse.#Does not identify plagiarism, how to avoid plagiarism, and the institutional repercussions of academic dishonesty. Does not understand copyright, intellectual property, royalties, and fair-use of information. Does not use a selected documentation style to cite resources. Citations contain many errors. Does not understand the reasons for citing sources and giving credit.#Partially identifies plagiarism, how to avoid plagiarism, and the institutional repercussions of academic dishonesty or is not consistent or is not consistent in the application of these skills. Partially understands copyright, intellectual property, royalties, and fair-use of information or is not consistent in the application of these skills. Uses but is not consistent in the use of a selected documentation style to cite resources; citations may contain errors. Partially understands the reasons for citing sources and giving credit.#Identifies plagiarism, how to avoid plagiarism, and the institutional repercussions of academic dishonesty. Understands copyright, intellectual property, royalties, and fair-use of information and is consistent in the application of these skills. Uses a selected documentation style to cite resources with few or no errors. Understands the reasons for citing sources and giving credit.
